---
layout: post
title: Bookmark manager Foxmarks now Xmarks
tags: [bookmark, foxmark, xmark]
published: true
date: 2009-03-13 08:46
---
You may have thought how you can manage your bookmarks , when logging from different systems . It was a tedious job for me to manage my bookmarks. But when I installed and know more about Foxmarks it makes my work easy . I used to login from my lap and desktop . But foxmarks make my book marks synchronize. Thanks to them .  Now lets compare some **features of Foxmarks and the new Xmarks**     Backup & Restore : Never lose a bookmark again. Foxmarks backs up your bookmarks every time you make changes. View and restore your old bookmarks on our web site.    Web Access : Away from your computers? View, add, edit and delete your bookmarks on our website. Your changes will automatically be saved to your other computers.  Share : Share your favorite bookmarks with friends. Our sharing server can display your bookmarks on a web page, in an RSS feed, or as a widget that you can add to your own blog or website.  Sync Profiles : Keep your work bookmarks at the office and your personal bookmarks at home. Synchronize only what you need. Foxmarks lets you customize which bookmarks appear on which computers.  Import & Export : You own your bookmarks. Import bookmarks from other websites, or export your bookmarks to a file on your hard drive. Your entire bookmark collection is never more than a click away on our web site.  These are the **additional features of Xmarks**  Site Info built into your browser : Click on the Xmarks info icon in your location bar to see detailed information about the site you are on, and discover other great sites just like it. Sync and Backup : Install Xmarks on each computer you use, and it seamlessly integrates with your web browser and keeps your bookmarks safely backed up and in sync. The Xmarks browser add-on is coming soon to Internet Explorer and Safari . Now its only for Mozilla :)  Smarter Search : Xmarks will highlight the 3 top sites in your Google results based on how many people have bookmarked them. Simply move your mouse over the site info icon to learn more about that site. But I am sad to say you I didn't notice this feature . May be a bug ?  \*Courtesy Foxmarks and Xamrks   
