---
layout: post
title: Select box poking out through menu in IE 6
tags: [ie6, select box]
published: true
date: 2009-03-20 08:45
---
Internet Explorer is always a pain for developers and web designers. Many of the functions are not recognised by IE . Some people who loves the buggy browser still uses it . There are lots of features and security available in Mozilla. Don't know why some people still stick onto it . Aaah its upto them .  I was looking for a solution for the IE6 bug . The bug was the select box is pocking through the javascript menu . All the other elements excpet the select box will come on the top :( . I want to make it clear. Spend a lot of time to get a solution for it. Finally I was successful .  This was the solution  Need to load the menu above an iframe .Referring the site w3schools I got some helps too . We need to make the z-index of menu 1 more than that of iframe. That is when z-index of iframeis 1, z-index of menu should be 2 or more. The default z-index will be 0 . z-index -1 has lower priority . The z-index property will be availale only when position:absolute is defined for it. When position:absolute is used , there will be some design issues arrising and you need to over come these .  <iframe name="iframeblocker" id="iframeblocker" src="" style="position:absolute; z-index:1; border:0; height:200px; width:50px; top:-1000px; left:-1000px;"\></iframe\>  So we can make the iframe visible by making the changes to x, y co-ordinates. You need to make the changes through DOM .  $blocker = document.getElementById('iframebblocker');  blocker.style.left = document.getElementById('MenuDiv').offsetLeft; // IE only  blocker.style.top = document.getElementById('MenuDiv').offsetTop; // IE only  blocker.style.width = document.getElementById('MenuDiv').offsetWidth;  blocker.style.height = document.getElementById('MenuDiv').offsetHeight;  The above code should be made available in the javascript menu . You can look the code where its saying to show the menu and hide. On hiding you can set the left , top , width and height to 0px. Else the iframe will be visible blocking other contents . The MenuDiv is the ID of the menu . We need to get the exact width , height , x and y c0-ordinate to show the iframe exactly below the menu . Else the iframe will be wide covering other values of the page.  Some of the features where IE specific. I have referred a lots of site , to fix this problem . Now I can handle this bug. This post is to make me remember how to solve this bug.   
