---
layout: post
title: Getting Started with OAuth 2.0 by Ryan Boyd; O'Reilly Media
tags: [book, review, oauth2.0, open-id]
published: true
date: 2012-04-26 22:46
---
OAuth the future of login? People are bored of registering and remebering user passwords on different websites. So the future of OAuth or using it in your daily life when developing website or apps is not that much far. Already many websites have been using it. This book [Getting Started with OAuth 2.0](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920021810.do) by Ryan Boyd published by O'Reilly Media is an awesome must read book. The author Ryan is a developer advocate at Google focused on enabling developers to extend Google Apps and build businesses on top of Google technology. He previously worked on OpenSocial and led the developer relations team for Google’s AtomPub APIs. Ryan has a great of knowledge of what he is talking about. The concepts of oauth was easy to understand, he has provided enough examples on how to use it in PHP, Javascript and HTML. I have already written an article at phpmaster[integrating facebook with php](http://phpmaster.com/integrating-with-facebook/). So if you ever thought of integrating oauth 2.0, its good to learn the concepts, so you can just relay on Http client library. Its a small 65 page book, but is worth . The book doesn't include or teach you how you can create your own oauth server , that is ok for its getting started with oauth. This book deserves a Rating of : 10 / 10 . Anything more you need to know? Title:Getting Started with OAuth 2.0 By: Ryan Boyd Publisher:O'Reilly Media Formats: Print Ebook Safari Books Online Print: February 2012 Ebook: February 2012 Print ISBN:978-1-4493-1160-5 | ISBN 10:1-4493-1160-1Ebook ISBN:978-1-4493-1159-9 | ISBN 10:1-4493-1159-8 Website : http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920021810.do  
