---
layout: post
title: Day 1 at The Fifth Elephant
tags: [the5el, thefifthelephant, hasgeek, talks]
published: true
date: 2012-07-27 21:17
---
9:30 - 10:15 : Crunching Big Data, Google Scale by Rahul Kulkarni   I was little bit late, but it was something interesting to know about bigquery.cloud.google.com . I am still trying to figure out how I can make use of these stuffs. Its really a cool thing to hackon.     10:15 - 11:00 : In Data We Believe Harish Pillay of Red Hat   This talk was also an interesting one to learn and know about glusters. I met some of these guys of glusters at the Redhat stall. Gluster was an open-source tool which was developed by guys at Bangalore and later acquired by Redhat. It was something great to know about it.     11:00 – 11:30 : Tea and chitchat. It was interesting to meet the Hacknight guys Sidharth, Siju, Raison etc.   11:30 – 12:15 : An Introduction to Data Visualization and Processing by Uttam Grandhi   Uttam presented nicely. He was so cool and shared how the Japanese fountain shows the numbers and stuffs in fountain.     He also showed how we can working with Processing a java based tool and how we can visualize without data itself.   12:15 – 1:00 : Visualizing Text by S Anand of Gramener.com   Yes S Anand is so popular among developers. Yes I know him via s-anand.net some years back. But I wan't able to recognize him when he was infront of me at \#Hacknight. But this time I didn't missed to say "Hi" to him. He with his collegue presented the talk so awesome. I as a participant feel that was the awesome talk of the day. He presents stuffs in a different way. I liked it. There was a difference in the way he speaks. Yes that makes him different from others. He mentioned about wordle.net, sip.s-anand.net, trendsmap.com, openbible.info, sentimental analysis, circular vizualisation and many more.     1:00 – 2:00 we had an awesome Lunch   2:00 – 2:30 Looking Beyond the Usual Suspects for Near Real-time Analytics on Big Data by Navjot Sidhu of Paypal. When we hear about people who has more problems than what we face, we know ours is not a big problem at all. Navjot Sidhu mentioned paypal having 500 transactions per second, 25 TB data and stuffs like that. I wonder how paypal really scales. It was interesting to know that the core of paypal is C which is almost 75 % of the code. He also talked about the events firing for a single transaction. I remembered about the Aura.Signal for a while.     2:30 – 3:00 : Build Your Own Real-time Analytics and Visualization, Enable Complex Event Processing, Event Patterns and Aggregates by Ramesh Perumalsamy and Vishnu H. Rao of Flipkart.     It was nice to know about logstash, graylog2, elastic search, statsD, graphite etc. I want to explore some of them.   3:00 – 3:30 “I know what you are going to do next summer” – Predicting Repeat Purchase Behavior by using Bayesian Hierarchical model and Regression Techniques Biswajit Pal, Subhasish Mishra and Manav Shroff I expected something, but as the talk goes on I didn't see much importance sitting over there. So left the hall and had a chat with the guys over the stall.   3:30 – 4:00 Oh Tea break :) .   4:00 – 4:30 : Building, Analyzing and Visualizing Large Graphs by Ashwin Rajeev There were lots of people for this talk than the room can accomodate. I was sitting on the floor. The session was interesting to learn more on graphs. He mentioned about rapheljs, d3.js as Uttam mentioned earlier in his talk.   4:30 – 5:00 : Approaches to ML Techniques on Real World Data by Venkata Ramana I was able to understand what he was trying to explain for I was at \#Hacknight. But I feel most of them didn't find the talk interesting.   5:00 – 5:30 : Build Your Own Search Engine by Siddhartha Reddy of flipkart.     This was an interesting talk. I learned something interesting. Indexer, Searcher, Text Analysis, Tokenisation, Stop Word Removal, Normalization, Case folding, Synonyms, Others, Stemming, Lemmatization etc.  He also showed Term document matrix, inverted index, ranking, inverse document frequency etc. He suggestested a text titled Introduction to Information Retrieval for further reading   http://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/   And finally winding up day one with 5:30 – 6:15 Panel Discussion: Best Practices by Kalpana Krishnaswami, Prithvijit Roy, Joydeep Sen Sarma, Anand S, Rohit Chattar, Navjot Sidhu Moderated by Govind Kanshi   I don't know how I missed to hear the talk Anand Chitipothu and Noufal Ibrahim - How the Internet Archive Preserves Petabytes of Data    
